# Introduction
#### This project aims for solving the ODEs in mircrogird, especially for forward (simulation) and inverse (parameters estimation) calculation of synchronous- and inverter-based DERs. Futhermore, it can be used in microgrid equivalent modeling.

#### Thanks to the contributions made by Yifan Wang, Wei Sun, Gareth Harrison, Bo Wang and Lei Shang.

#### plz contact schenlk@ieee.org (Likun S/Chen) if you need further information about the PINN application in microgrid.

#### If you request collaboration or tech. support, please contact W.Sun@ed.ac.uk (Dr. Wei Sun, Edinburgh University) and dongxz@whu.edu.cn (Prof. Dong, Wuhan University).

# Env. Info.
#### 1. Our test env: Python Version 3.11 backends PyTorch 2.0.1 + CU117 on NVIDIA A30 × 8 and PyTorch  2.5.1 Python  3.12(ubuntu22.04) Cuda  12.4 on RTX 4090 × 2 with 32 vCPU Intel(R) Xeon(R) Gold 6430
#### 2. RTDS: RSCAD FX Version >= 2.0
# Basic principles plz refer to our papers

>LATEX CITATION:
>
>@unpublished{LikunSchenPESGM2024,  
  author = {Chen, Likun and Dong, Xuzhu and Wang, Yifan and Sun, Wei and Wang, Bo and Harrison, Gareth},  
  title  = {Physics-Informed Neural Network for Microgrid Forward/Inverse Ordinary Differential Equations},  
  note   = {IEEE PES General Meeting},  
  year   = {2024},  
>}
>
>@unpublished{LikunSchenTSTE2025,  
  author = {Chen, Likun and Wang, Yifan and Sun, Wei and Dong, Xuzhu and Wang, Bo},  
  title  = {Adaptable Parameters Estimation for Microgrid Distributed Energy Resources Using Modified Physics-Informed Neural Network},  
  note   = {Submitted to IEEE Trans. on Sustainable Energy},  
  year   = {2025},  
>}
>
>>@unpublished{LikunSchenIJEPES2025,  
  author = {Chen, Likun and Wang, Yifan and Sun, Wei and Dong, Xuzhu and Shang, Lei},  
  title  = {Modified Hard-Constrained PINNs for Physically Consistent Microgrid Transient Response Modeling},  
  note   = {Submitted to IJEPES},  
  year   = {2025},  
>}
  
# HOW TO USE
The example codes for both sync- and inverter-based DERs are [SYNC_MAIN.py](./PINN-for-Synchronous/SYNC_MAIN.py) and [PID_MAIN.py](./PINN-for-inverter-control-loop/PID_MAIN.py).

Before running, plz remember to install Torch and CUDA correctly.

If any path errors occur, please check **both the absolute and relative paths** of your running environment, if the error message is related to the path for storing the model, please **create a folder named `save_model/` on your own and add the path** accordingly.

The example data files [inverter-based DER data (Name: '0122FltQControl.csv')](./data/inverter-control-loop/0122FltQControl.csv) and [sync-based unit data (Name'927testforTe2.csv')](./data/synchronous-machine/927testforTe2.csv) are both generated by real-time digital simulation (RTDS) system.

Or you can just use the [Auto Running (Name: RunMeEz.py)](./RunMeEz.py) to simultaneously run [SYNC_MAIN.py](./PINN-for-Synchronous/SYNC_MAIN.py) and [PID_MAIN.py](./PINN-for-inverter-control-loop/PID_MAIN.py), povided that your computer is expensive enough, with good RAM and a graphics card.

## About PINN
Physics-Informed Neural Networks (PINNs) have unique advantages in solving Ordinary Differential Equations (ODEs) related to electrical power systems.

The main benefit is the ability to solve both forward and inverse problems with limited data and under conditions where the physical equations are not well-defined.

This capability is precisely why we have applied this method. For a detailed understanding of the principles behind PINNs, refer to the [DEEPXDE](https://deepxde.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html).


## About RTDS microgrid model
The established model is saved in `./RTDS-MODEL/SimpleMicrogrid`，the directory contains the following files.
1. `Microgrid1.dfx` : our established model, contains really perfect control and satisfying amount of detailed controls and measurement points XD. (I'm really super satisfied with the microgrid model I've built, even though my supervisor thinks it's quite ordinary. Still, I believe I've done a great job.)
2. `Microgrid1.sib` : runtime file, using this for RTDS simulation while running.
3. `Microgrid1.pdf` : official microgrid introduction document, differs from our model, but still has some reference value.
4. `Banshee.dfx` : more complex microgrid cluster system, complicated enough for data generation.
